+Hierarchical vs cyclic motives. 
+May Leonard model as a good analogy.
+Difference between the two models.
+The rules represent a microscopic set of rules
++When iumplemented on scale we see unexpected behavior.
+

+ Good morning. My name is Lazarus and I'd like to discuss our research on how 
  spatial inhomogeneities in cyclic competition models can effect the long-term
  formation of spatio-temporal patterns.

+ The two models that we are looking at are motivated by a variety of systems in biology, population
  dynamics, and chemistry in which each actor can be in one of three species, each of which 
  is dominant over the next; so species A replaces species B, species B replaces species C, and
  C replaces species A. In both the Rock-Paper-Scissors and May-Leonard model the particles
  are allowed to move through space according to a mobility rate epsilon. The difference between 
  the two models is that in the May-Leonard model predation and reproduction are seperate processes 
  , whereas in the RPS system they occur simultaneously.

+ We are interested in these two systems because, while in the coexistance regime, the ML model 
  produces long-lived patterns in the form of spiral waves whose domain becomes larger as 
  their mobility increases, as opposed to the RPS model which produces patches that become
  less ordered for higher mobility rates. Our goal through this project is to explore possible
  methods by which we can disrupt the formation of these patterns.

+ In order to do this we implemented a MC simulation of MLM on a lattice with periodic 
  boundary conditions. On a vertical section of the lattice we instead implemented the RPS
  model. Upon running these simulations we observed a disruption of the normal spiral waves in
  the form of plane-waves which seemingly eminate away from the RPS region at the boundary.

The reason that we are
  where three species compete in a cyclical manner. 
  The first is the Rock-Paper-Scissors model
